---
date: 2019-01-09
linktitle: What habits or things do I need to cultivate for the next 25 years?
title: What habits or things do I need to cultivate for the next 25 years?
weight: 10
tags: future
---

I’m trying to make sure I’m set up as well as I can be for my life in the future. I don’t know what it’ll look like. It might not be great. But it could be wonderful. I need to prepare myself to be adaptable either way.

1. Build your resilience 
   1. Learn more stoicism
   2. Go to therapy
   3. Try new ways of expanding your mind
   4. See if medication can help with your anxiety
   5. Find ways to cope with stressful and anxiety inducing things
   6. Meditate and be mindful
2. Save and invest
   1. Automate investing to save your decision making and time 
   2. Prioritize tax deferred growth over stocks
   3. Save and have a nest egg to cover several months’ expenses
   4. Stockpile a little food
   5. Keep a good mix of cash on hand and investments, you never know what’ll happen with the markets
3. Have fun
   1. -Working hard is important-
   2. Work isn’t everything, but you should do as good a job as you can
   3. Try to find a job you like. If you can’t, find a job that serves your financial goals
   4. Spend money on things that make you happy
4. Help others
   1. Donate where you can
   2. Heal the world in a way that’s unique to you. There will always be things in need of healing
5. Keep loving
   1. Yourself
   2. Your wife
   3. Make sure you’re surrounded by plants and pets
   4. Your friends
      1. Make an effort to have friends local to you
   5. Your family 
6. Learn who you are
   1. You’re a moving target, make sure to keep introspecting
7. Always be gentle with yourself
   1. If you wouldn’t speak to your friend the way you’re speaking to yourself, then it’s a sign you need to be kinder

- - -

## Other big questions 
1. What really makes me happy?
   1. Time with Alison 
   2. Working out
   3. Time with my pets, walking and playing with them
   4. A good video game
   5. Helping others grow and learn (management and coaching)
2. How do I understand what’s pleasure and what’s happiness?
   1. Pleasure is temporary but happiness is longer-term
3. What’s my superpower(s)?
   1. Empathic nature
   2. Conflict resolution
   3. Deep thinking?

#personal